---
layout: post
title:  "Evolution, Plastics & The Brain"
categories: [ Biology, Sustainability, Brain,Math ]
tags: [evolution, psychoactives, whales, plastics,dataisbeautiful]
image: https://i.imgur.com/DMX0roD.png
---

*Cover Blue Whale*

## Prime Stories

### Evolution
Because of the square-cube law it is that we don’t see animals that are very large today. Say for instance a hundred meter high bird. Which is also the largest trees we know max out around 120 meters. So if asked to choose between fighting a horse sized duck and 100 duck sized horses. It is better to choose the duck. Because the duck’s feet would snap like toothpicks. So earlier on earth when O2 in the atmosphere was around 30% (vs 21% now) due to higher surface area and being able to absorb O2 directly from skins we had much larger insects, say a dragonfly of the size of an eagle. This same law is also why in water since fishes experience no gravity. Whales are much much larger but since they are mammals and stay near the surface also have an upper limit. On planets which have low gravity, deep oceans, and non mammal fishes, it may be possible to see much larger fishes.

Evolution doesn't always reach the optimum point. Since we can only move in a direction which is up gradient (imagine a whole surface (x,y,z) of traits where z value is their advantage) so as a consequence we can not grow wings for example, since it needs to be such that every step towards having a wing needs to have a distinct advantage or at least a non-disadvantage to it.


## Main Stories

### Breaking down Plastic
Scientists at the US Department of Energy recently used Ball Milling technique to break down polyestrene (plastic). This was done at room temperature. [*Ames Lab*](https://www.ameslab.gov/news/polystyrene-waste-is-everywhere-and-it-s-not-biodegradable-scientists-just-found-a-way-to)

### Whale Hunting
It has been noticed that over years whales have developed defences against whale hunting as time for each hunt increases and whale strike rate fell by 58%. [*Royal Society*](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/full/10.1098/rsbl.2021.0030?af=R&)

### Monoamines
Depression is cause by a lack of monoamines in the brain. Most importantly Seratonin. This was first cured reliably by Fluxotine (or Prozac in '88) it was a first of kind Selective Seratonin Reuptake Inhibitor (SSRI).


## Math

## Nightingale Diagrams
Plotting around with shadded areas instead of x and y so that data can loop back on itself and be continuous. (Asset Exam aptitude was a primitive form of nightingale diagrams where radius or distance was the metric and not area).


## QuickBits
> One dose of Psilocybin can take a human from 50% to 85% open-ness.

> Wikipedia to charge companies to use its database.

> "Beware of Unearned wisdom" ~ *Carl Jung (On Psilocybin)*


## Analysis

### Marketting
Medical marketting is not always negetive. It can have positive effects. The marketting of Prozac resulted in a decrease in stigmatisation of depression and higher acceptance in society.