---
layout: post
title:  "Newton, Forensics & Waves"
author: plutoniumm
categories: [ Planets, Math, Biology , ML, Games, Construction]
tags: [ mars, saturn, pi ,buildings]
image: https://i.imgur.com/wknmai8.gif
---

## Main Stories

### Botanical Forensics with Xyloscope
Machine uses ML to classify wood based on species with detailed high res images.

### Tsunamis in Planets
- It is theoreised that Mars had an ocean but does not show a shoreline because a mega-tsunami wiped out this shoreline.
- Venus has clouds which move much much faster than the planet. This is probably because of surface waves which push air up.
- Titan around saturn has a tilted orbit compared to rings and hence genrates a slight lift wave in the rings which precesses around with the moon.

### Big Buildings
While very tall most buildings don't have a lot of usable ground area. Ex burj khalifa does not fall even in the top 10 skyscrapers by ground area (main building only measured). The largest being China's new finance center (as of Current date).


## Math

### Calculating Pi
Till before Newton we used sandwitch of inscribed and circumscribed larger and larger polynomials. Newton used binomial theorem with negetive and fractional numbers and extended the Pascals triangle.

Newton used binomial theorem to create
&#x222B;<sub>0</sub><sup>1</sup> (1-x<sup>2</sup>) = &#x222B; (Infinite series)
This was then converged better with
&#x222B;<sub>0</sub><sup>1/2</sup> (1-x<sup>2</sup>) = &#x222B; (rapid convergence Infinite series) with x at 1/2 = &pi;/12 + &#8730;3/8. Rearrange and solve.

### Winning Guess Who
Use binary search. Eliminate 50% people each time. that way 24&rarr;1 in &le;5 moves.


## QuickBits
> F1 does not allow any moving parts to control aero.

> Fishes have covers for their blood making kidneys to stop UV damage. Also why humans make blood in bones. Becasuse its a darker place.