---
layout: post
author: Mudit Jain
title: Elon Musk pushes the boundries of humanity
tags: Space_News
category: Uncategorized
type: Blog
image: https://i.imgur.com/F1SmV8r.jpg
---
\
A couple of months ago, our friend the Billionaire, philanthropist, entrepreneur and superhero (No, not Tony Stark) gave us a surprise as he declared SpaceX’s plans for Mars. Almost a year after he teased us with the same, he was back with a more detailed
a version of how he plans to send people to Mars within the next 7 years.
He started with introducing the BFR(Big Freaking rocket? Maybe.). A beast of a ship which can carry 150 tons of cargo and people into Space. This BFR can also launch
satellites into orbit, and ferry people from one part of Earth to another within 30 minutes. In addition to this, this ship is completely reusable (Awesome right!). All parts of the launch have the capability of landing back onto the launch pad. It can do manned missions to the moon to maybe create a moon base because Why not? SpaceX has also decided to stop the function of its more famous Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy rockets and focus completely on this project.
His plans include sending First missions to Mars by 2022
followed by a manned mission as early as 2024. Spacex has never been less ambitious but this seems too far stretched even by their standards. As their so-called launch date comes near they are yet to develop the BFR and test it before trying for Mars. Added to that is the challenges of designing a habitat for Mars.

So, do you think Elon Musk went a lot ahead of himself or will he be able to achieve his more than ambitious plan for a Mars Colony this soon enough? I would say that We are not far away from being a multiplanet species. Meanwhile, NASA and Boeing are also planning for manned missions to Mars and further. Lets just wait and see who is the first one to succeed and hope for the best. And while you’re at it, don’t forget to check out the rest of our blogs.

Being the Musk fan that I am, how can I not ask you to follow their [Twitter Handle]("https://twitter.com/SpaceX?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor")? Go check it out!