---
layout: post
title:  "Drugs, Solar & Hummming Birds"
categories: [Biology, Construction, Medicine]
image: https://i.imgur.com/e7zOdlv.gif
---

*Cover HummingBird*

## Main Stories
### Drug dev
Human insulin earlier used to be made with pigs. But then scientists took one Protein and put it in EColi and now EColi makes inulin for humans.

We also use animal lab cells to produce Protein. First a ring of the desired ouptput Protein and a nutrient gene is created. The petri dish is flooded with this nutrient and then the rings. Some cells will take in the rings and start consuming the nutrient. Then the nutrient in the dish is dried out. All those who did not accept the ring die and we are left with a protien producing animal double membraned cell (Most commonly CHO Cells)

### Canal top Solar
Modiji had proposed a solar panel array above an irrigation canal system. It had the following benefits:
- No extra land area was used to generate renewable energy
- The covered canal water evaporates less thus providing better and more water to farmers
- This method also keeps the solar panels cooler
- Shading the water also prevents algal blooms making the water toxic

Kochi airport runs on 100% solar power, assisted by the canals running accross it.

### Hummming Birds
Hummingbirds can slow their heart frpm 1200BPM to 50BPM while sleeping. They also use a special figure 8 motion of wings to generate lift both up and down  stroke. Their wing muscles are about 1/3rd of their body weight. Some of these birds consume upto 6 times their body weight of food in one go.