---
layout: post
public: false
toc: true
title:  "Steve Wozniak"
categories: [Technology]
image: "./assets/twilicons/XXX.jpg"
---

*Cover ?*

# PRIME STORIES

## Ocean Currents
All the ocean currents of the world are tied together in one single belt called The Ocean Conveyer. We measure ocean currents in sverdrups. 1 sverdrup = 1 million m<sup>3</sup>/s. All the world's rivers combined have a flow of 1 sverdrup. The Conveyer has a stream of 10 sverdrups. Surface currents are dependent on
- Features
    - Tides
    - Rotation of Earth
    - Shape of land
- Water
    - Temperature
    - Depth
    - Salinity

**The Thermohaline Circulation**: At higher latitudes cold water gets saltier and evaporates due to wind. Water also freezes into ice furthur leaving more salt in water. This water becomes denser and falls deeper. Water from the equator heats up due to the sun and becomes saltier and is carried upwards by winds like the gulf stream. This wind throws the water from the americas to Europe heating it in the process. This heat is then dumped into Europe and water cools down and the cycle starts again.

This cycle is why despite being at same latitudes London (5&deg;) and the Canda (-11&deg;) have wildly different temperatures. The aforementioned section of the Conveyer is called AMOC (*Atlantic Meridional Overturing Circulation*).

**Global Warming**: If greenland's ice were to melt and dump much fresh water into AMOC. It would slow down the sinking of saltly water and by consequence the AMOC and by consequce the whole conveyer.

## On Perceverance


# MAIN STORIES

### Steve Was
Steve Wozniak left Apple and started a Remote Control company as he believed it was the future. It didn't do very well due to being to complicated.

### Swimming Mammals
Moose can swim in water in search of salty plants since that salt is an essential part of them being able to make their antlers.
Kharai camel from India are the only breed of camel that can swim

## Twistron Harvesters
A C-nanotube string into a tangled weave of carbon and submerging it into an electrolyte gel. When covered in the gel and pulled, the C-nanotubes squeeze together and generate a small current—enough to momentarily light up a LED [*ScienceMag*](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/357/6353/773?utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=digital&utm_campaign=vid-nanoyarnpaper-14846)

# QUICKBITS


# ANALYSIS